2023 and 2024 marked my return to Evergreen after a long absence, and they've been years filled with tumult and barely met expectations. However, compared to my first stint here in 2017-2019, when I was homeless and going through the wringer even worse than I am presently, it's been a marked improvement.

In winter and spring of 2023, I took Computer Science Foundations because of the very small cybernetic seminar component. Despite what I felt was extreme frustration and struggle to pass the class, including dropping the second quarter's discrete math thread due to coursework overload, I managed to secure 28 of the 32 credits available, only not getting the credits for discrete. This was extremely emboldening to me, and signaled that this time around, the struggle might be more perceived than real.

Enter 2024.

I took Practice of Organic Farming in the fall, a decision that in hindsight was an egregious mistake. It set me up for a labor of Hercules down the road, and despite being the first program I've ever earned full credit from here, it did not academically help me in any way. Intellectually, it did. I liked my professors and the subject matter, and it furthered my interest in incorporating agriculture in cybernetics. However, my ability to capitalize on this failed, for some reasons beyond my control.

Because I took a program unrelated to my degree path and offering no upper division science credit, I needed to find programs that did distribute UD credit very, very quickly. During PoOF, I was involved in the creation of a group of students focused on mechanizing and automating some processes at the organic farm, which was the crux of my entire philosophical oeuvre I'm trying to do here. Unfortunately, with the extremely tight window of credits I have left before I have to graduate, I would be unable to take anything that didn't fit the mold. For winter 2025, I had to take 12 credits, which would feasibly mean an 8 credit and 4 credit program, or one 12 credit program. Unfortunately, the Student Originated Studies offering that I had helped give life in the fall was only 6 credits max. Instead of taking something I should have taken, I instead decided to take my last two "fun" classes before it was time to buckle down and dedicate the rest of my schooling to upper division work. These ended up being Indigenous Stewardship of Marine Resources and Cyanotyping and Animation.

Indigenous Stewardship I breezed through easily. It was a subject I'm intensely knowledgeable about and deeply passionate in, so I found it no trouble at all to secure all 4 available credits. Cyanotyping was a much harder proposition. It was my first art class in a decade, and it absolutely rinsed me. I earned 7 out of 8 credits, and I consider that a miracle. I loved the class though, and it made me want to see animation come to Evergreen as an artistic track all of its own even more than I already did.

In the spring, I started my upper division climb with Neural Networks and Bio-inspired Robotics for Advanced Computing. Both of these have been tremendously difficult. Issues with my personal life have left me extremely exhausted and barely able to keep up with the extremely fast pace of work, with weekends being dedicated to recouping the energy I lost throughout the week to start the whole process over again the next week, with little room to focus on work. I'm hoping to finish this year strong, get all 12 credits between both of these programs, and use the summer to recover in time for Data Structures and Algorithms in the fall.