Alexis Baker

Neurobiology

Synthesis Homework 2

07/01/2026


### Part 1

**Reflection:**


### Part 2: Questions

**Chapter 3**

**1. What is the difference between ionotropic and metabotropic receptors?** Ionotropic receptors are ion channels, metabotropic receptors are not but can call upon ion channels through the second-messenger system.

**2. How did Otto Loewi determine that signals were passed from neuron to another neuron or muscle cell using neurotransmitters?** By stimulating the vagus nerve in a frog heart to slow it down, taking the fluid around the heart, and putting it in another container with a different frog heart to see if the fluid slowed it down.

**3. What are the main excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the brain?** Glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), respectively.

**4. Explain the agonist and antagonist action of a ligand, with respect to effects on receptors.** Receptor agonists bind to receptors and activate them. Receptor antagonists bind to receptors and block them from being activated by their normal neurotransmitter.

**5. How are dose-response curves generated? How are they useful to pharmacologists? Distinguish between a drug’s binding affinity and its efficacy.** DRCs are generated by plotting increasing sizes of dosage on a log scale against increasing strength of the response being studied. They can reveal useful and safe dosage ranges, which are crucial for pharmacologists. Binding affinity concerns the propensity for molecules to bind to receptors, and efficacy concerns the extent to which that binding results in activating a response.

**6. What is meant by ED<sub>50</sub> and LD<sub>50</sub>? What is the therapeutic index?** ED<sub>50</sub> is the dosage at which a drug shows half of its maximal effect. LD<sub>50</sub> is the dosage at which 50% of test subjects died outright. The therapeutic index is a blown-out DRC that shows the separation between useful, safe doses and harmful ones.

**7. Summarize ways drugs can alter pre-synaptic and post-synaptic processes and provide at least one example for each.** Drugs can alter presynaptic processes by inhibiting reuptake mechanisms and thus prolong synaptic activity, which some stimulants like caffiene and amphetamines do. They can also alter postsynaptic processes by activating certain receptors; nicotine activates ACh receptors, for instance, while LSD is a serotonin agonist.

**8. How are the actions of neurotransmitters terminated at the synapse?** Through reuptake and enzymes that break neurotransmitter molecules down.


**Chapter 5**

**1. Identify and describe the 4 major sensory receptors found in the skin.** Free nerve endings sense pain, itch, and temperature; Merkel's disc, Meissner's corpuscle, and hair follicle receptors sense touch; the Pacinian corpuscle senses vibration and pressure; and Ruffini corpuscles sense stretch.

**2. How are Pacinian corpuscles like ogres?** They, too, are like onions.

**3. Describe how a Pacinian corpuscle generates a receptor potential.** When skin is stretched, mechanically gated sodium channels open and creat a graded receptor potential.

**4. Name and trace the main somatosensory pathway to the brain. Describe its organization and name its main components.** Touch receptors sense stimulation on the skin and send action potentials through axons to the dorsal roots of the spinal cord. Once it enters the dorsal horn it ascends the spinal column to the brain. Once it gets there, it gets to the medulla, where it makes its first synapse, innervating a medullary neuron that sends the axon along the midline to the thalamus. Once at the thalamus, it sends the composited information to the somatosensory cortex.

**5. Where is the primary somatosensory cortex located and how is it organized?** The PSC for each hemisphere is located in the postcentral gyrus. The cells in the PSC are arranged as a map of the body but according to the density of sensory receptors in each area.

**6. What is meant by receptive field? Where would you expect to find receptors with small receptive fields? What other characteristic would you expect to find where receptive fields are small?** The receptive field is the stimulus region and features that concern cell activity in a sensory region. You'd find small receptive fields in areas where tactile sense is of utmost importance, like the fingertips. You'd also expect to find high sensory receptor density in these parts.

**7. How does the behavior of tonic and phasic receptors differ? Where would you expect to find each?** Phasic receptors are adapted to cut off action potentials rapidly as stimulation is maintained, while tonic receptors maintain that frequency. Our skin is full of phasic receptors, while tonic receptors are going to be in places where action potentials can't be limited lest we see cataclysmic system failure, like our muscles and blood vessels.

**8. What is a dermatome? How are dermatomes related to spinal nerves?** A dermatome is a layer of skin that is innervated by a particular spinal nerve and is catalogued in the somatosensory map.

**9. Define pain. Why is pain considered as a positive adaptation?** Pain is discomfort associated with tissue damage. This is considered a positive adaptation because it makes us aware when something is wrong with us; being unaware in this regard risks very negative consequences.

**10. How do pain signals travel to the brain? How does this pathway differ from that of light touch?** Damaged cells release substances that activate free nerve endings that act as nociceptors. Action potentials reflexively activate blood vessels and mast cells to produce inflammation. Stimulated mast cells produce histamine. Information enters throgh the dorsal root ganglion. Pain fibers release glutamate as a transmitter. Dorsal horn cells send information to the brain. This differs from the pathway of light touch because the fibers used by each pathway differ in diameter and myelination.

**11. If a person suffered the spinal cord injury shown below, describe what sensory deficits would the person have on each side of the body.** The patient would suffer from lost fine touch and vibration sensations on the left side, and lost pain and temperature sensations on the right.
