Computer Science Foundations heralded my return to Evergreen after a nearly six year long absence. I came back to school with new ideas of what I wanted to do in my life, and new passions. I signed up for the program for its cybernetics component, which turned out to be extremely small in the grand scheme of credits. The program was an immense struggle for me from start to finish, but I exceeded even my most hopeful expectations. I learned a lot that I didn't know before, and can now understand and talk about topics related to computer science that I didn't really understand before. Despite the growth and strong finish, I finished the program learning that I didn't want to do Information Technology after all, and instead would pivot to the agricultural aspect of cybernetics.

I want it emphasized, to the school and to any future employers that might be reading this, that this was not the fault of the faculty or the school; this was me being in over my head. I cannot speak for my classmates, I can only speak for me.

Because of my schizophrenia, it's very difficult for me to be in a confined space with a lot of people, and especially difficult if I can't have my back against the wall. Due to this, I was online for good portions of the program, including all of programming winter quarter, the majority of programming spring quarter, and almost all of seminar spring quarter. This was much to the chagrin of my professors, who would've preferred I be in person as much as possible. I do learn better in person, and I tried to come in to class in person as much as I could, and would try to communicate with my classmates as to how packed the room was before I made a decision.

Additionally, my out-of-school life in the first six months of 2024 was quite possibly the worst I had ever experienced in at least five years. I was extremely overwhelmed and stressed from pretty much the word 'go'.

Winter quarter was composed of discrete mathematics, digital logic, programming workshops in C, and a cybernetics seminar. Professor Weiss oversaw the former two and my winter seminar; Professor Chandra oversaw programming. In winter quarter, I felt like I did better with math than I did with digital logic, which was very surprising given my extreme difficulties with math. This was largely due to the fact that it was much easier for me to find resources for discrete math than circuit boards. I did find an educational game called Turing Complete that covered almost everything this program did when it came to digital logic, and in a way that significantly helped me understand what I was doing. Unfortunately, I found it evaluation week of winter quarter. If I had found it much earlier, I probably would've done much better in that portion of the class. My strong area was, naturally, seminar. Seminar has always been my strongest part of an Evergreen program, because I'm in my element when I'm talking about something with classmates. As one of the very few students in the program with a background in the subject, I supplied a lot of background information about it when others were confused. However, during my evaluation at the end of the program, Professor Weiss brought up the point that I talked a bit too much, and didn't leave much room for others. I accept this criticism as something I have a tendency to do, and it's something I need to work on in the future.

Spring quarter was the same format--discrete mathematics, a computer science lecture, a programming workshop, and seminar--but the subjects were changed. Digital logic was traded out for systems organization in assembly, C for C++, and cybernetics for ethics. Spring quarter presented me with new challenges. My confidence in my ability to complete the program was deeply shaken when I had to drop the discrete mathematics thread after the first week. Professor Weiss was no longer in charge of the subject, but instead Professor Pham. I enjoyed Professor Pham as a person and his teaching style, but he also assigned a much heavier workload that I just wasn't able to manage. Assembly was extremely difficult for me to wrap my head around, and my success in that thread was entirely based on me constructing notes that could be memorized. C++ took a long, long time for me to fully find the rhythm of, and my struggles in that thread in particular is what told me that it was going to be very difficult for me to find and hold work in the field. Seminar, likewise, was a struggle. I do not like ethics as a subject, strongly disagreed with the discussion points and my classmates, and found myself withdrawing more and more in an effort to not let my temper affect my relationships with my professors and classmates.

Despite my struggles in both quarters, but especially spring quarter, I achieved nearly full credit for the program. This was a major shock to me. I was expecting half-credit, but in spite of everything, I had completed the assignments, tests, and projects needed, and done well on several of them, even. It gave me the confidence to keep going in my studies, albeit in a different field.
