One of the ways I like to describe schizophrenia to others who are completely unfamiliar with it is not through "seeing things" or "hearing voices", but rather seeing everything as systems. It's a "big-picture" symptom, for better and for worse. For the better, things that require a high-level overview of how things work come strangely naturally to me; there is a parallel universe out there where I went into epidemiology, like I told my third-grade class when we were asked what we wanted to be when we grew up. For the worse, I am catastrophically bad at actually _implementing_ the low-level side of things. Extremely good at thinking, extremely bad at doing. This program was my chance to finally commit to that workout. I played sports and band in high school; I am intimately familiar that you do not improve at anything without practice.

Due in equal parts to my future in certain threads being uncertain, several bouts of illness, and a serious psychological malfunction brought on by events outside of class, I fell extremely behind and spent most of the quarter playing catch-up. I put together a personal GitHub repository to keep track of all of my assignments, and through this I was able to make up the vast majority of my missing work in just a week. In this repository is stored every assignment and every comment on those assignments throughout the school year, both as a backup in case Canvas fails and also for me to keep myself and my work organized.



### Data Structures

Data structures are kind of a difficult topic to teach to university students. 99% of situations in Big Tech, which most computer science students (unfortunately) matriculate into, that require implementation of a data structure will be answered in one second: it's hashing. This is obviously not conducive when your job is to actually teach how these things work, fundamentally. So you necessarily have to get into weeds that a lot of students, besides those truly devoted to the literal magic of "computer" "science", are going to find boring and irrelevant to their lives. I, however, am not like those people.

The earlier weeks were, admittedly, a little bit mind-numbing. You can only make arrays and linked lists so interesting before you're ready to learn the top-shelf concepts; also not helping that effect is that a lot of it were concepts that were covered in _Computer Science Foundations_, but augmented. It was when we finally got to trees and hashing that I felt more in my element. The topic is something I know nothing about and have to engage with my drive to satisfy my curiosity? Perfect. I'm home. It also gave me systems to think about, large-scale structures that required knowing mathematical processes beyond how to add something to a couple of dozen elements in a list.

The only assigned course material for this thread was Open Data Structures by Pat Morin. While a fine book, it didn't quite fill in everything that I felt I needed, so I used supplementary material of my choosing. Primary in this was the MIT OpenCourseWare (OCW) listing for Course 6.006, _Introduction to Algorithms_. There are three such listings for this course, and I strategically used all of them to cover in the areas that I wanted in more detail than the book was giving me. This was immensely helpful as I was making up assignments in the back half of the quarter. Also helpful as training for this program was Course 6.1200J, _Mathematics for Computer Science_, which is basically discrete math. Seeing as the last time I did discrete math was when I took _Computer Science Foundations_ in the front half of 2024, it was an extremely helpful refresher. Throughout the quarter, I also read and quoted write-ups from Stanford and Cornell in my assignments particularly in the later weeks when we were covering hashing and graphs.



### Parallel and Distributed Computing

Parallel and distributed computing (PDC) was equal parts the most interesting and most frustrating part of this course. It was the most interesting because, finally, we had come to systems. Actual data systems! Networks! Theoretically, my bread and butter! In theory. In practice, it was frustration after frustration, first through my "primary" computer physically breaking, and then by me hosing my backup computer's SSD, severely hampering my ability to do several of the assignments. I was, however, able to get them done through the use of online compilers and IDEs.

PDC has a deceptively high skill floor. It required as much mental exercise as data structures did, which I was not expecting. I had to learn terminal commands I had never known before, and actually, properly debug a C file for the first time (I had never had that problem in _Computer Science Foundations_). I used _Parallel and Distributed Computation: Numerical Methods_ by Dimitri Bertsekas and John Tsitsiklis as my supplementary learning material for this thread. As the quarter went on, I felt myself grasping the subject matter more and more, and able to tie it all back to my main field of study and interest: cybernetics, just like I was hoping I'd be able to.

For my final assignment, I chose to write a very simple program in Rust, which has native parallelization capabilities. I chose this because Rust is a language that I had a frankly very low opinion of before. I didn't like its syntax, I didn't like how it was structured, and the community felt very, very alienating and much like a clique. But I really wanted to give it a chance, especially if I'm going into data science and systems thinking, and especially in the fields of healthcare and biotech. I completed the assignment and actually came away from it quite liking Rust and gaining a new appreciation for it. I would like to continue working with it in my future studies and work.

 
